technology, disruption in supply chain,
distribution, those things is what makes
brands happen. What is behind changes
like that once she showed me
aesthetically what she wanted to create,
I couldn't get that out of my head. I
just couldn't. I have to really watch it
so we don't become a victim of our own
success. It's not the whole cake, but
it's it's the biggest part of the cake.
[Music]
I have to start with the name of your
holding company which is popular culture
which I think is the coolest name for
holding company I've encountered and
demands the opening question what trends
in popular culture do you think are the
most interesting today? Well, first of
all, thank you. Um, I have always wanted
to have a really cool name.
Mission accomplished. And you're
probably the first person who's
commented on it. So, 15 years later, I
finally got that recognition I was I was
looking for. So, I appreciate it. You
got it. I named my my company Popular
Culture because I'm a real child of the
of the ' 90s pop culture. You know,
growing up in Sweden and you partly grew
up in Minnesota, so you know the feeling
what it's like in January to ride your
bikes to your friend's house and I would
ride my bike to my friend's house to
watch Beverly Hills 90210 and Baywatch
and you know we would sit there, you
know, and and eat chips and just can you
can you know could you imagine yourself
living like that? Could you imagine
yourself being at the peach pit? I was
like a real child of the '9s. Yeah. Pop
culture and skateboard scene and music.
And I've always been obsessed with it.
And as I got older, I would say the red
thread in my career
has been the ability to to work in the
intersection of pop culture and
commerce.
first through my first chapter on behalf
of my clients and later on in life as as
an entrepreneur and as an investor, I
have believed that pop culture today is
really the only hack to the consumer
economy that we have.
And um so
for me that was it it it was the obvious
name because that's what I do. When you
say hack when you say hack to the
consumer does that mean the means
through which to reach them and build
something for them and make sure that
they know about it. There's really hard
to reach a critical mass of consumers
today. If someone gave you and me a
billion dollars
to start a vodka company, we can call it
winter warmth.
And we spent that on TV and billboards
and on meta,
we wouldn't have half the brand
recognition that Dwayne the Rock Johnson
have for his tequila company, Tamana.
So you tell me what's the value of
Dwayne Johnson? It's a billion dollars
or is it five? So it's really the only
way today that you can reach a critical
mass of US consumers.
Not just building awareness, but
building a sense of um knowing what the
company stands for and what the brand's
trying to do is is is is for personality
and it is for culture. And I think today
as we're living through we've or we have
lived through a fragmentation of media,
right? The fragmentation of media. My
social media feed looks entirely
different from yours and entirely
different from my wives. We are
consuming different news from each other
and often um very different opinions uh
from one another. If I'm into fly
fishing,
I can live in a fly fishing world where
fly fishing is the most important thing
in the world. I can watch fly fishing
shows and engage with other fly
fishermanmen. And uh I truly believe
that fly fishing runs the universe. Um
so the only two things that cuts across
really is pop culture and sport. And I
put sport kind of in the culture
bracket. It's sport and culture is the
only two things that generally tend to
cross all those boundaries in society
today being um political, racial,
religious boundaries that society has
drawn up and I think in many cases the
algorithms have um strengthened. Can you
talk about the difference between the
role of individuals versus institutions
today versus say the '9s when you
developed your interest in pop culture?
It seems like that change has been
seismic and and really important for
businesses. I don't know if the consumer
makes as much of a distinction today
as we used to.
When we grew up,
a singer was a singer, an actor was an
actor,
a brand was a brand. Um, a soda maker
was a soda maker, a clothing company was
a clothing company. And
brands and individuals had very little
agency to move past
what the consumers the box the consumer
had put them in or that they had you
know themselves worked within. Um there
was just very little room. I think we
made a high distinction between a
corporation and an individual.
My sense is if you ask a 20-year-old
today,
they make very few of those
distinctions.
Not only can you be a wrestler who
becomes the world's biggest movie star,
a phenomenal entrepreneur, the lines
between these disciplines or um they
have been entirely blurred out. Ryan
Reynolds is a movie star is also the
founder of a mobile phone network.
That's bizarre. I don't think that's
would have been the case 20 years ago or
even 10, the consumer don't really mind.
Um in fact I think in a world where
we have a distrust generally for
authority and a distrust
um where truth is somewhat debatable.
The importance of an individual and the
voice of an individual has probably
never been higher. M I think we see that
from the business I'm in all the way to
the Oval Office. Having a strong voice
in culture today translates into a
strong voice in consumer but also a
strong voice in politics. I want to
stick with culture for a moment and ask
what you think drives the major changes
like you and I have talked before about
uh the change from hiphop to country as
like a big theme of changing culture in
the US and around the world. What is
behind changes like that? Is it people
that drive it? Is it confluence of
forces? Like what is the input data that
you watch to figure out how things are
changing and why? Everything
we have around us is a reaction and a
counter reaction. I don't think that
just goes for music. I think the current
political climate is a clear counter
reaction to the previous four years.
That was a reaction to the previous four
years.
I think the same thing is true for um
pop culture.
What I'm seeing quite interestingly
where pop culture used to be more
contrarian to the establishment
like the '9s was about being contrarian
to the establishment.
It wouldn't matter if it is nirvana or
public enemy. Okay. The establishment in
the name. Yeah. This the the the
establishment was was somewhat the enemy
of the young.
Today we live in a time where I see pop
culture moving more in lock step
with the establishment
and let's say where the kind of wind is
blowing
um
dare I say politically but just in terms
of what we put first in a world today
that we most people really consider
quite quite threatening, scary,
uncertain.
I just watched the movie Mountain Head.
I heard about it. I haven't watched it
yet. It's worth a watch. It's a good
satire
and uh it's clear he spent some time um
with the stereotypical
billionaire master of the universe gods
of tech. I think that movie, however
exaggerated it is and how much it it
prays on our fear about the future, um,
but that's how people feel and that's
nothing new. I go back to Stanley
Cubri's Dr. Strange Love, which was
about, of course, the prospect of a uh
nuclear war, which really, if you ask
your grandparents,
defined their lives. Yeah, their whole
life these kind of consequential moments
that we are now experiencing,
they experienced and I would say they
were probably more intense. I mean like
the Cuba missile crisis. It's a highly
intense moment than and the struggle
between um the political philosophy of
of the of of the of of Western Europe
and Eastern Europe. Um,
but that's a that's a long-winded way to
say that today I see culture moving with
politics. So, in a
America first agenda,
we're seeing and uh in a time of of
technological disruption and
uncertainty, we are clamoring to those
things
um that makes us feel good. What makes
us feel good? Olive Garden, country
music,
Applebee's is booming.
You know, Banana Republic is having the
best year in probably decades.
Abbercomian Fitch. Abbercomian and
Fitch. Somehow Back from the dead.
Exactly. Right. We recently did a diner
in LA. We called it the Skiims Diner. We
took over a classic, you know, drive-in
diner and we um transformed it into a
ski experience, but you know, it's big
root, you know, uh root beer floats and
waffle stacks high. And and we in 5
minutes, I think we booked this place
out for 10 days from morning to 3:00 in
the morning. Like from from 8:00 a.m. to
3:00 a.m. Every table went in four or
five minutes. I mean, people were lining
up for any spare seats all around the
block and um it's just that feeling of
comfort.
You ask any 12 12y old or 14year-old
today, what's your favorite TV show?
You'd be surprised how many people say
friends.
They just they they you know they're
just clamoring for that less threatening
warm
nostalgia that um those shows and those
experience um gives you. I really think
that it's the techn technological
changes and the uncertainty about the
future
that is is driving this pop culture that
has driven this pop culture moment
that's really if you think about it has
moved more from futurism to nostalgia.
So interesting futurism
we haven't really seen for for for quite
some time. We're not hopeful about the
future quite as much as we used to be.
But if you and I'll make a reference to
diners right now. I'm obsessed with
diners because again I'm a disciple of
popular culture. So I'm listening to
country myself. I've had Morgan Wallen
in the car on my way here. Um but I love
diners because diners is one of the few
things that now they're retro, right?
But they weren't a restaurant concept
that was born out of nostalgia like
Italian food.
Diners were hyper modern modernist
structures, you know. Um they were all
about the future. They were it was in an
era where cars were inspired by,
you know, the space race. They were
inspired by rockets. And it was all
about this promise of what tomorrow had
for us. And we were certain that this
generation was going to be so much
greater off than the generation that had
lived through through the Second World
War. And I think today generally we are
fearful of the future rather than
optimistic. I think we should be
optimistic about the future. Winston
Churchill talking about people that
lived through the war,
he once said, "I'm an optimist because I
see little use to be being anything
else.
And um I'm definitely an optimist. How
do we flip back into that mode? Like I'm
one that wishes the pervasive cultural
vibe was optimism about the future and
futurism. And we're at a we're in a time
right now when say compared to 5 years
ago. There is way more interesting
technological platform explosion
happening than there was even 5 years
ago. So it would seem like there's more
to imagine that we might be able to
build and and do that's good for
everybody. But at the same time, this
shift is happening. So what what do you
think of that? Well, you are a
beneficiary of it. Sure. Right. This
podcast and the people that you speak to
and the community that you are a part
of, you're at the you're on the tip of
the spear, right? You're the beneficiary
of it. this format that
um that I have the pleasure today to um
to take part of um didn't exist in its
form, you know, a decade ago. It
certainly wouldn't have provided a
fantastic living. Today, you're a
beneficiary of the creator economy.
you're a beneficiary of um uh of the
insight that you probably have as a
result of of of your network and your
community
and can position yourself for it. So for
you the future is exciting but for you
know a large part of our country
they are not and perhaps we need to do a
better job at bringing them along or or
for them to really seeing
you know the the benefits and I'm not so
sure the benefits is it's an app with a
new feature you know the benefits It's
needs to be more profound than that. In
what ways is if you if the transition
has been kind of from hip-hop to country
in music, what else goes in that bundle
of hip-hop like related cultural
touchston with hip-hop and why are those
like you touched on the comfort and
nostalgia being why the the the new
cultural touchston have worked. What
about the ones we've transitioned away
from work less well? Well, I think in
the I think it's reflected in sports,
too.
I remember was it eight years ago, 10
years ago? I'm I'm I'm I'm freestyling a
little bit, but remember when there was
a lot of talk about CTE? Yeah. And you
know, parents doomed. I'm not so sure
parents, all parents still want their
kids to play football, but it was really
a conversation and there was this
feeling that the NFL was somewhat in
trouble. Was NFL going to go the way of
boxing? today that feels laughable
because NFL owns sports in this country.
NFL is the biggest sports league in the
country and college football is the
second largest you know sport in
viewership numbers in this country far
ahead of of basketball for example. So
to me it seems pretty consistent right?
football, Taylor Swift, Morgan Wallen,
Olive Garden,
Chili's has been in the news recently.
They're killing it. You know, we all
want sliders. And, you know, to me,
that's just very it's a very consistent
cultural mu uh movement that is lining
up with the overarching feeling of
society
in uh which is of course more
protectionist than it's been, you know,
in the past. And it's probably a
counterreaction
um to globalism
which much like technology did not work
for everybody. Speaking of cyclicality,
the Abberian Fitch story for some reason
is just fascinating to me that this was
this very fallen brand that defined your
and my kind of upbringing but then went
the wrong way and somehow has been
resurgent.
Tell me about what you think learning
about that story or watching that story
and I'm curious in general what other
sort of fallen brands might be able to
make a comeback and and how through
learning from the story like that one or
Banana Republic or others. Oh, I love
this question. I love it because it will
lead me into something I really want to
talk about. Why big wins? Yeah. in this
era.
I really I must have told anybody who
wanted to listen five years ago to buy
Abocrombi. I think it was worth 700 or
$800 million at the time.
I think there's a big difference between
a
what consumers care about and a consumer
story and what is a Wall Street
financial press story.
Ironically, they don't seem to impact
one another very much.
If you asked consumers about Abocrombi,
I think they were going through a very
tough time. Abocrombie the founder was
in all sorts of all sorts of trouble. He
was in all sorts of trouble. But if you
ask a 20s something consumer,
if that would have impacted their
purchasing
behavior,
common sense would say it would, but I
never see it do.
Victoria's Secret is is right up there
too, right? Um, they had an Epstein
connection because the founder, Les
Vexner, had one. They had totally lost
that kind of connectivity with the
customer. Their fashion shows felt
outdated. The way that they
um portrayed women felt outdated. The
whole concept in the early 2020s felt
just really out of step with our times.
And everybody said, "It's over. It's not
over. They're doing just fine." Now the
street are still working on the thesis
of that story from 2020. Nothing has
shifted Wall Street's views
of Victoria Secrets.
But the consumers, go to any mall in
America and you see early 20somes with a
Sephora bag, which is a darling, you
know, from a financial press point of
view, and a Victoria Secret bag.
they are unaffected about. So sometimes
I think we we um
we tend we tend to overanalyze a little
bit and think that things really matters
to customers that don't really matters
to customers. You know we know that Coke
isn't great for us to drink with every
meal but Coca-Cola seems to be doing
just fine. If you think about this idea
of why big wins, what do these brands
and these trends teach you? and and
what's the core idea? I think big wins
and I think big will increasingly win.
This is the time for so many different
reasons. Uh one going back to what we
spoke about which is you know popular
culture being one of the only hacks in
consumer economy. It's because to do
business today. So, first going back, we
have been in an era of brand creation
with Shopify and other tools make it
incredibly easy to start a business and
through Meta and other platforms very
easy to find an audience that cared
about what you were doing. Today
the algorithm is not favoring
uh loyalty. It's not it's not as you
know not favoring necessarily who you
followed two years ago or 5 years ago.
It favors who you recently followed. It
favors what you're talking about over
breakfast with your partner. It favors
things that you have engaged with that
you clicked on. maybe something a friend
sent to you and you watched it three
times and now you're getting, you know,
served tons of lookalike content.
It does not favor brands making content.
It's not putting that in front um of its
followers. I mean, I don't know how many
people you follow. Maybe I follow 1,200.
Do I see content from more than 200 of
those? Never. I don't. Right. Sometimes
I think, "Oh my god, I haven't seen
something for so long. Did they stop
posting?" Of course they didn't. It just
moved past me. Just didn't favor it. So,
as we went from, you know, a social
media to really an interestbased
algorithm,
let's say,
that was pretty devastating for young
brands. It was very very hard all of a
sudden to build a community on social
the way that five years ago, six or even
I would I say eight, nine years ago was
very possible.
Skims were one of the few larger brands
that was able to build a community
through social and get to a critical
scale
where we could pay our way.
But today you have to pay to play if you
want to be seen.
The other part is distribution.
I've seen postcoid
you know in in shopping has really
returned to 2019 levels. In the end of
the day
it's 80% a physical store business and
20% an e-commerce business today. Um
just generally in America.
So people ask me, why do you want to
open so many stores? And I said, I don't
want to be the 20% business. I want to
be in the 80% business.
But opening stores is incredibly
expensive.
And it it's it's very capital, you know,
it it consumes a lot of capital to build
stores. So again, if you and I was
trying to start a retailer,
we would really struggle to find the
financing and being able to open a lo a
good location, a nice store in a good
location. It's just unaffordable.
So big wins, especially large retailers,
large restaurant chains
with a big footprint.
It it it's almost impossible today to to
recreate.
It's the perfect time to talk about how
you broke through. So, how Skins, which
is what, 5 years old? It's not It's not
terribly. Yeah. Coming up to six in
September. Yes. Almost six. But you're
extremely young business. Kindergarten
age. Kindergarten age. And yet you've
broken through this difficult landscape.
So just tell us the entire origin story
of how whether or not that's the model
for if you were an entrepreneur sitting
here today with a blank sheet of paper
what from the skim story could be
borrowed and applied again productively
to breakthrough. I have a
distinct feeling that if I tried to do
it again, I wouldn't be successful
today. When it comes to, for the lack of
better word, disruption in consumer
and especially retail is more connected
to changes in uh supply chain
than uh and consumer taste.
than the brand itself. It's not that a
brand comes along and then the world
shifts or mobilizes it around the brand.
It's far more common that the um changes
are happening
and the brand is in the right place at
the right time. you know, um they say
luck is when opportunity meets
preparation,
and I think that's true.
Timing is just one of those things that
are beyond our control somewhat.
I ultimately have to believe that and
I'm going to go into it the the the
way we make product
the the strength of what we do the value
proposition that we offer our way to
market would ultimately have had the
same result
but I very much doubt it would have been
on the same timeline
and going back for history and I'll I'll
I'll get into why this was the right
moment. I hopefully I'm not too
longwinded. No, bring it about this. I
like the long versions.
So, Les Wexner, who is uh one of the
kind of godfathers of American retail,
created for those who don't know, and
why would they uh Victoria Secret, Bath
and Body, Express,
Abberrombi,
um the crazy Yeah. Hollister.
Um, and more and more. Was it the brands
he created or was it No, the the it was
the fact that it coincided
with malls being built in the 80s all
across America and all these great malls
in Minnesota. You have uh Mall of
America. The Mall of America for
example, very biggest one. There's a lot
of storefronts.
These malls needed fresh concepts for
their customers
and less understood
this opportunity and created and bought
companies and developed these concepts
that he could replicate time over time
over time with favorable economics
in all of the malls that was built in
America.
He's a genius of retail. I'm just saying
none of those retailers would be around
if it hadn't been for the expansion of
the American mall.
If you're into luxury,
Ralph Lauren,
Donna Karen, George Armani, Versace,
Gucci, Dolabana, I can go on.
All happened within the same five years.
Some of them might have been started
slightly earlier but they but it was a
distinct period of time where they grew
where they expanded and that's directly
linked to Sachs and Neiman Marcus and
Barnes because these designers were able
to sell their goods and finance the
goods for something called factoring
where you get the money before you sell
before you get your invoice paid.
creating a positive cash flow which is
why someone like George Armani still
owns 100% of his business
that could not be replicated today. It
was a unique situation and a unique
financing model that led them to be able
to retain the full ownership and scale
their companies to a critical size.
after in the aftermath of the financial
crisis,
people wanted designer values, but they
wanted to pay less for them. Well, enter
Michael Kors, Tory Burch,
Dragon Bone, the expansion of Coach, and
all of these companies that today makes
five five billion, 10 billion, 15
billion dollar businesses. There was a
change in consumer taste.
And that's kind of well documented. What
no one talks about is, and maybe you
remember this, do you remember all the
diffusion lines, DNG? Not really. So
designers used to make harmonic change.
Oh yeah, sure. I remember that one. All
this kind of like diffusion lines. And
it was like only a couple of companies
behind it and they went bust. So all of
a sudden all over the world there was
all this floor space for these lower
price designer goods again the growth of
those businesses and this change in
distribution they all coincide. So in
America we had uh the J C Penies and the
gap and they were disrupted by the
Europeans like in the text that owns
Sara and H&M they had a better supply
chain. They were able to get trend at
the lower price to the American customer
faster. Faster. Yeah. What is Shien?
It's an even more efficient model. It's
a supply chain and software company
that is masquerading as a retailer. They
found an even more efficient way to make
and supply trends at an even lower
price. technology disruption in supply
chain uh distribution
those things is what makes brands happen
you know and
with skims
it was a combination of a few things. So
one I saw this very large part in retail
um in in underwear and lounge. I saw
that people were changing the way that
they dressed not just on weekends but
life was becoming kind of two distinct
wardrobes. One that is very soft. I'm
not sure if you wear Vari. Of course
it's a great brand. Great brand. Um, and
I'm sure when you come home tonight, I'm
gonna change into it. There you go. So,
you have two wardrobes, right? And you
will have one at home and you had one
out and or one at work and the one at
home started spilling in over your life.
So, that's one thing that's happening.
Consumer taste is changing.
Incumbents
had gotten stale, discount driven.
Um, they weren't leading with innovation
anymore. It was multiacks
and even though it was cheap, we were
paying a lot for not very much. So I saw
the opportunity to really lead through
um through innovation in the supply
chain and built a business really based
on fabrication because what you love
about Vori is the way you feel. It's the
feel as you're wearing the product,
right? The way the fabric will feel to
skin. I'm getting a little scientific on
this. Please do. But I'm getting to a
point, which is that is just as powerful
as the difference in taste between Coke
and Pepsi.
Cuz if you buy something that's not
vary, I promise you, you'll feel the
difference cuz you know exactly how Vir
is meant to feel. Well, that's the Coke
and Pepsi challenge. It's it's distinct
is a it's a distinct sensory experience
like the first sip of Starbucks feels a
certain way, the first sip feeling.
So I saw the opportunity to create that
in this category,
you know, in the beginning primarily for
women and now of course for everybody
and really bring out a company that was
a better alternative.
It might been, you know, slightly more
expensive but still affordable.
I think about Starbucks a lot when I do
these things.
I think Starbucks
uh to me is is is is just a phenomenal
innovation company. Many of the things
we take for granted like a Frappuccino
or pumpkin spice latte or Starbucks
inventions and they're incredible at
building these franchises. What they've
done in the last couple of years with
refreshers is it's it's incredibly
powerful. And I took that same I took
that analogy to my company and I said I
want to be I want to be the Starbucks.
And the lesson there is the adaptability
the driving of franchises within the
bigger brand. What what specifically?
It's about doing something
that is worth the extra bit of money it
costs because I'm sure you have coffee.
You have coffee here. Maybe if I really
asked if I asked could I have a cup of
coffee? You you might have coffee here.
I would get that for free. In fact,
every office building in America has
free coffee. My office has free coffee.
Pretty good ones, too. Yeah. But I still
think the Starbucks is worth my $550 or
$6, right? So, it's at a premium,
but it's still available to me. It's
still affordable, and I believe that the
quality difference is worth the
difference in price.
And that's a philosophy
that I think runs like a red thread
through all of my thinking. How do I
make just a phenomenal experience for
what you're paying? I'm less focused on
the price more than what I'm more
focused on what you get for your money.
Can you talk about this concept of house
taste and how it is developed over time
and how that relates to the like the
feeling the first sip feeling the
feeling on the skin of the wari like the
distinctive thing sensory experience or
whatever that a consumer brand allows
for and how that relates to taste and
I'm fascinated by this topic house taste
is a is a is a is a dangerous dangerous
thing it's a dangerous thing I collect
wine I love wine every winery
I go to they truly believe that their
wine is the best in the world. Of
course, why do they believe that? They
often have worked there for 10 years, 20
years. So, they drink a lot of their own
wine. And safe to say, they've developed
the wine that is perfect for their
pallet. Therefore, they truly believe
their wine is the best in the world
because every other wine they try will
not taste as good as the one they make.
House taste is therefore a dangerous
concept for any company. You shouldn't
get high on your own supply
and you you certainly shouldn't get too
in love with what you're doing. It
happens pretty easily and I see it with
a lot of entrepreneurs, a lot of
founders.
They are really in love with their own
product and they spend a lot of time
convincing or wanting to convince
everyone they meet why their product is
the best in the world rather than
letting people tell them what they think
about what they make. And um I was aware
of this. So
what we did out of the gate was just
really creating a a very strong
feedback loop
with our own community and
not losing oursel necessarily in in in
in our own in our own house taste. The
consumer is is is the customer is always
right. What was the mechanism for that?
Like how did you actually build that
feedback loop really for social
some of it you can you know do through
process
and that's good
but you know culture eats process and
just the culture of a company that is
open to outside feedback
I think that has to come from the top if
I'm open to feedback you will be open to
feedback and and and down the reporting
line it will go. And assuming that if
you if a customer feels a certain way,
it's warranted because they feel a
certain way. We talked a little bit
about the conditions that made SKIMS
possible. The supply chain, the
technology, you mentioned sheen, which I
think has like 10 times better in, you
know, unsold inventory performance than
like the next most relevant. So, the
business is much better and not getting
sucked in by house taste like this
positive feedback. I'd love to talk
about the other side of the equation,
which is the brilliant partnership with
Kim, how it was established. The phrase
I've heard before is the king that
became a kingmaker,
which which were or queen that became a
queen maker. Um, I want to talk about
the origins of this relationship. Maybe
even going back to like the first
conversation you can remember having
about this idea and just like tell us
that story to begin. The whole process
was very organic.
I've had the pleasure of being, you
know, um, part of a few startups through
my life. And when it's at its best, it
happens organically.
And when it too contrived or you're
trying to like force a good idea, like
what should we do? Um, it tends not to
work out quite so well. She wanted I
mean, she really had a point of view, an
aesthetic point of view on what she
wanted to make. And I had a point of
view of what was missing from this
category from a price position
innovation piece.
From her point of view, very much
aesthetically driven certain solutions
and things that just wasn't available in
the market that she wanted to bring to
market.
And
through a series of conversation, we
just ended up in a place
where
we were just doing it. I don't I don't
know if there was ever like let's do
this thing. It was more like, oh, we're
we're definitely doing this thing.
When you're an entrepreneur, it's not
that you want to do something. It's that
you cannot not do something. You can't
leave it alone. You wake up and you just
you cannot leave it alone. And once she
showed me
aesthetically what she wanted to create,
I couldn't get that out of my head. I
just couldn't. So, you know, I had kind
of finished the previous chapter. I had
sold my businesses.
I was, you know, in my late 30s,
semi-retired.
And uh and you know I had been walking
around for for maybe a year, two years.
I was I was still the chairman of a
group within Omnicom at the time. And um
I was really trying to search for it,
you know, search for it, you know, what
am I going to do? What am I going to do?
And then once I saw what she had in
mind, there was no question about what I
was going to do. This is what I had to
do. What was it like? What was it? A
specific feature? Was it a look? Like it
was a world. It was a world. It was just
stepping into
a world that no one else owned
aesthetically. I spent my whole life
talking in these terms. So I understand
it might seem very clear to me when I
say that expression and less clear to
others what I mean with stepping into a
world. Um when you go into Ralph Lauren,
you're in Ralph Lauren's world. It's
very clear where you are, right? You
could take all the signs off the walls
and you know where you are. And
when I saw aesthetically what she wanted
to do,
it was just instantly identifiable,
distinctive, so distinctive. Just the
look, it was just so distinctive. the
world, the the the the the
color world, the architecture,
the um attitude towards uh women. Um
how to lift people up kind of. It was
inclusive without ever having to say the
word inclusive. It wasn't a decision. It
just was naturally. It was so
distinctive. Yeah, distinctive is the
right way to put it. And and uh I just
felt I had to bring I just had to help
bring her that to bring that to life.
And so what was step one? So you step
into a world and then you have to go
make products and start to distribute
them. Like what was that first chapter
defined by? I think there's two distinct
steps to starting a company. One is a
hell of a lot more fun than the second.
Dreaming. First is the visualizing,
right? Um, it's gratifying, it's fast,
you know, you you kind of start putting
together this mood and and design and
and and all that's incredibly gratifying
and and and and it's fast. And then
comes the second step where most go
where most good ideas goes to die, which
is the execution.
execution of bringing that to life at
the right cost.
You know, I mean, I've been in this
world for my whole life. It's what I do.
Yeah. You know, you have interviewed
some just some of the most unbelievable,
you know, investors and and and and I'm
sure founders and if some Altman wanted
to build a another product, he knows how
to do it. This is what he does.
exceptional talent to build an
exceptional product. And uh you know the
world is full of communities and I have
mine. I can build an exceptional team.
That's kind of second nature. We're all
good at something and
I've been relatively good in my career
at starting with a blank piece of paper
and I'll figure it out. You know, I can
make in my head I make sense of the
scramble. You know, you know, I can I
can articulate the mess into a step, a
step one and a step two and a step
three. And what is that process? What is
uh what is literally going on in your
head or what are what are you literally
doing in those early days to bring some
order to the the messy chaos of
possibility that hasn't been executed
yet? Part of it is probably intuitive.
Part of it is
I'm a very objective person.
Like I can remove myself emotionally
from pretty much any situation and just
really look at it very matter of fact
and that's incredibly helpful. You know
when you start something
you need to have you know a healthy dose
of nite.
That's important
in my business. Experience helps.
experience helps. It's it's very
physical
and
for me it all starts with a product
marketing
and and you know I was trained as a
marketeteer my whole first chapter of my
life was one of a marketeteer and if you
ask me who am I today I probably still
identify as a marketeteer first and
foremost but I know its role It's
lipstick.
You know, in the end of the day, it's
only there to accelerate. You need good
lips. Yeah. Yeah. It's only there to
accelerate or to accentuate
something that is already there. And I
always say that you have to create a
product so great that you will still get
to the same place with or without
marketing.
just on the strength of the product
alone. Sometimes when I've hired people
into uh marketing functions,
um the trick question is for them to
tell me a
the last ad campaign they saw from Tesla
and they struggle with that question
because Tesla don't make advertising.
It certainly hasn't stopped them.
I think the product is is omnipotent.
It's number one, two and three. And
everything else we do is just to aid the
awareness and selling of that product.
But product is everything. So years
before we launched the company, we
started in u product development in in
really going all the way down to raw
material. really thinking about how can
I bring a product at an exceptional
quality and feel at an affordable price
and that was my whole focus because the
companies that does solve it I mean I'm
talking a lot about the worry today but
that's probably because some very
distinctive feel well it's more
comfortable sometimes to make an example
using others and and I think they've
done a good job they're kind of the
anti-K schemes because they're not so
marketing le. They were
just really leading through fabrication.
Yeah. And your experience just was
probably someone told you about it or
you walk past a store or a friend of you
wore it and um you know they have gotten
to a similar place
um just through the strength of their
product been around longer. So in the
end of the day product really is
omnipotent and um for me any any venture
that I'm involved in as a founder or as
an investor I'm just laser focused on um
the strength of the product. I don't
care about anything else. The product is
everything. What was the biggest
breakthrough that you remember in the
product development days for the early
Skims products? Was it a specific
material? Was it some something else?
Again, I come back to culture and and
and the whole company was built on, you
know, product franchises.
You don't really know what people would
be gravitating to right out of the box.
Um, I felt incredibly strongly about
what we had done. But when we came to
market, there was this moment maybe
couple of months in or a month in. I
think we had 2 million customers on wait
list for product and we had no product
left at all. and no product coming. And
but there was this moment for sure when
I realized that it had hit that that it
really had hit the nerve that our timing
had lined up that people genuinely loved
the product
and that the way that we the world that
we built was highly desirable. And it
was like a 1 plus one plus one wasn't
free. It was like 100 all of a sudden.
It was just was just asymmetric the
amount of interest that um that
customers had in the brand. And six
years in, I think Skiims is, you know, a
far more
important company culturally than it is,
you know, the size of a business. you
know, we're still a small company
for what I believe is a very big brand
today. I like this phrase that you've
told me before, which is that by nature,
you're the sort of person that likes to
take yards, not inches. Yeah. Yeah.
Which which makes me wonder about this
this very founder energy. Yeah. Founder
energy. Um that that you had this
incredible opportunity early on to make
a huge splash through Kim and others for
a lot of people to know about this. How
did you orchestrate that? And talk a
little bit about her and your idea to
not just have it be about her, but have
it be a platform for other people like
her to spread the brand around the
world. I think that's such a cool idea.
Kim is incredibly clever and
she doesn't get enough credit for
what a great executive she is. And
she's she's very smart.
She's not
I mean she has a a a she's she's a
public person. She's also a private
person. She's a celebrity probably one
of the most famous people in this world.
She's also a creative director.
I think we share some of that
objectiveness
that I spoke about.
She can very much compartmentalize I
believe the different roles that
she plays
and um draw lines between the different
areas of her life.
So
we were both very uh aware that if you
want to build something
um with longevity, if you want to if you
want to make something that really
matters,
you
it has to be a platform. It can't be
about one person.
I remember showing her a picture of this
kid, I don't know, going to school. I'm
speculating here, uh, in an American
city wearing a pair of Beats headphones
and a pair of Jordans
way before we launched. And I said to
her, you know, that kid has never
watched Michael Jordan play basketball,
nor did they listen to Dr. Dre. Yet,
both of those companies would have been
impossible without its founders.
So the work to make SKIMS a
a a a pop culture platform
really started day one because we knew
it took time. And what made Beats Beats
was LeBron wearing it between the bus
and the locker room. Right. What made
Jordan, you know, people say, "Oh,
Jordan," or they called Skiims in the
early days a celebrity brand. And I
said, "That's fine. Is Is Jordan a
celebrity brand?" It is. It's just 40
years old at this point.
It's the fact that the Jordan platform
allowed other athletes
that shared his competitive spirit
and athletes that were connected to
culture and you kind of know what the
Jordan athlete is about. And the Jordan
brand
is inspired and built upon, you know,
um, Michael Jordan's importance in
popular culture, you know, in that era
and has become a platform in pop culture
for 40 years as a result of it, you
know, and um,
Kim is for an influencer generation and
and I'll give you a I'm paraphraseing
ing slightly but I believe that um 20
years ago about
14 15% of American teenagers wanted to
be a professional athlete. Today that
number is more like 3%.
But almost 20% of American teenagers
today wants to be a creator or an
influencer.
Well you tell me isn't Kim Kardashian
the Michael Jordan of the influencer
generation?
I would say she is. So she deserves to
have a brand that is inspired by that
and a brand that will live on in 30, 40
and 50 years as a um as a platform in
popular culture just like Jordan is in
sport. What have you learned about that
transference from the original source
Jordan or Dr. Dre or Kim in this case to
others that share some set of common
features like the competitive spirit for
Jordan? like teach me about what you've
learned about doing that effectively and
how to borrow the original source and
transfer it to other fantastic athletes
and musicians and and people that you
work with. I've got to put that to Kim
because she's a participant in popular
culture,
not an analyst or someone who is trying
to figure it out. She is it, you know,
naturally. Our disposition is different.
I think corporate America
looks at what they do and they
overanalyze it and they invest time and
money in research and decision making
and to build consensus about who to
endorse and what to do. And then they
try to create content
that everybody can be happy with and
sign off and then they put it out in
this world. and no one cares and no one
really cares. But it's also one year
later. It's like if my wife asks me what
I want for dinner on first day on a
Monday. I don't know what I want for
dinner on first day. It's Monday.
And popular culture is dairy. It goes
off. So the first thing we did was go at
it. Not everything we do is going to be
successful. Not everything is going to
track. We don't optimize for what is
going to work and not work. That sounds
simple.
Um, maybe counterintuitive,
but if you want to be if you want to be
in the site guys, it's about doing
rather than not doing. It's about action
rather than inaction. So, you do more
rather do less. The second thing we knew
is just the the the decision making
process.
You can't operate
6 months in advance, a year in advance.
It's impossible.
But imagine
if we operated six weeks in advance.
Well, six weeks in advance. I know who's
going to be nominated for the Oscars. I
know who's likely going to be up at the
Grammys.
I know um that the next season of White
Lotus is coming out. I know when the
season finale is going to be.
So when you're operating
much more in the in the immediaccy
of popular culture, your chance of being
effective again increases exponentially.
So if you think about some of the stuff
that we've done at Skiims,
you know, last year for the MBA, the
face of Skiims was Shajil Alexander.
That was his breakout year. This year
was Donovan Mitchell.
Um last year we featured, you know, uh
Patrick Mahomes and family over the
holidays.
Um we didn't know he would win the Super
Bowl. He was a roll every year. You
could know that a year in advance.
Exactly.
But when we featured Usher, we knew he
was doing the halftime show. When we had
the Italian girls that played a pivotal
role in in in the last season of the
season before last, I guess, of uh White
Lotus, it was clear that they were the
breakouts. So, what's the decision-m
process? It's very simple. I love White
Lotus.
Wouldn't it be cool? Wouldn't it be cool
if the two girls
that we're all a little bit, you know,
quietly excited about were our
Valentine's couple and we took them out
of the show. So, I think going by again,
what are we interested in? What do we
want to see? What are we excited about?
Yeah, you can ask me right now. it's um
you know this afternoon what I want for
dinner I will have a pretty good idea of
what I fancy. It's the same thing.
Public culture is the same thing. I know
right now what I want to see then the
only thing stopping us is our ability to
attract the talent or the opportunity to
do it for us in that moment. Then you
have to take a lot of chances. Not
everything is going to hit. Okay, we had
Sabrina Carpenter
um one week before she went number one
with espresso. Okay. I wish I was one
week later, but it was pretty good.
Yeah. You know, so this is kind of how
we work. We are really working with as a
team, as a company, as a culture. What
do we want to see right now? And then we
try to make it happen. And we're not
trying to hit it out the park every
single time.
If you like baseball, Shiooni, greatest
baseball player probably ever lived.
Even though I'm sure that's debatable.
Um, he doesn't hit the home run every
time he steps up to bat.
That's us. We don't hit the home run
every time we step up to bat, but we hit
them often enough. I love the the simple
device of wouldn't it be cool? Wouldn't
it be cool?
It is as good of a process to determine
what to do
as anything else. It's just that our
culture and especially when we are
responsible founders and executives,
we love the idea that we can control an
unpredictable outcome
and
we can't. If we could, every LTV to CAC
model that you ever saw over the past 15
years would have worked out. And let me
tell you, I haven't seen one.
What does it require on the operational
side to to be able to deliver against
the wouldn't it be cool strategy,
whether that's supply chain, marketing,
operations,
distribution, like it seems like the
system needs to be able to accommodate
that fast turn. Yeah, you build that
muscle. You build it over time, you
know. You build it over time. It's not
hard in the beginning. Small companies
can do remarkable things.
Every founder would tell you that what
the first 12, 20 people can accomplish
is unbelievable. Yeah. And what the next
thousand can accomplish is
disappointing.
Why? What is it? You've done this a
number of times. What happens in that
transition that makes that true? As a
company grows,
there needs to be discipline. There
needs to be a sense of structure. It
needs to have a sense of process.
And
they're necessary,
but if you're not very very careful,
they'll kill what made you special to
begin with. I think that's true for any
sector. What about the pricing of
distribution represented by these great
partnerships? You mentioned what's
Dwayne the Rock Johnson worth? $5
billion. Is is this like asset well
priced or is there still enough like
arbitrage for brands? You see where I'm
getting at? like like how does Donovan
Mitchell, who I'm a huge fan of, know
his own price like and and how do you
think about um that dynamic and how it
evolves? I have never spent too much
time
worrying about the ROI
of one
singular opportunity.
I think if you do
um two things can happen.
You can be right
and uh positively surprised and next
time you make a mistake or you can be
disappointed leading you to think that
you're overspent and therefore pull back
and not do the next one. So
uh again
I come back to little bit. Isn't it
cool? you know, um, wouldn't this be
cool to do? Am I proud of the result? Do
am I excited about it? You know, do we
think it represented the brand well? I
think those things are more important.
And again, just the pace, just the pace
of output and uh, constantly being in
the conversation. The hard thing with
building an e-commerce company is that
we don't own any real estate. It's it's
only
it's it the real estate is is the mind
share
and
you know keeping customers attention is
incredibly hard.
So,
you know, we take in a enormous amount
of messages in our daily lives, right?
When we were kids, we took in a
fraction, not a percent even of what
we're taking in today, right? So, when I
say the Coke Pepsi Challenge, you know
what I'm talking about. Of course. Have
you seen a Coke Pepsi Challenge? They
might not have done it for 30 years. I
have no idea when the Coke Pepsi
Challenge even happened. Yeah, stuck in
my mind. If I say the album cover of um
Nirvana, okay, you know, exactly, you
know it, you can close your eyes to see
it, right? I have no idea what you know
what an album cover is of any artist,
you know, really in in in in the last 5
years. So things can be incredibly
important for an hour in our culture
today. I can't change that. The only
thing I can do is I can increase the
output. I can increase the output. What
I've heard you use the phrase um
posttruth media before. Yeah. What does
that mean and what are the implications
of it? There are two twofolds.
One, you don't necessarily trust what
you read even from a trusted news
source.
That could be misguided, but that's how
people feel. I'm not talking about what
is fact and what is not fact. I'm
talking about how most Americans feel
about what they read. They're skeptical.
Okay. So, we have gravitated to
individual voices
as a source of information
but also
as a source of a singular truth.
And you can be a disciple of Elon Musk
or you can be a disciple of AOC.
And you're far more likely to believe
either of those two than um than the
Washington Post. What do you think the
implications of AI on that whole trend?
And I'm assuming you think maybe it
makes that even more true that we align
ourselves with people and a and a
coherent perspective which whether or
not it's correct truth, it's still it's
continuous and coherent. Absolutely.
It's it's the only way to go. The indivi
the power of the individual is only
going to strengthen in this current
culture. There's no doubt about it.
However, we probably have to ready
ourselves for a time where if Elon Musk
says it, we will be debat debating if he
actually indeed did say it. So, um
unfortunately,
uh as a result of deep fakes, we are
we're we're probably going to be
skeptical of everything we see soon
enough. And um so I believe in the power
of networks of I I believe in close
networks. We follow individuals and uh
we will make sure that they are saying
it and we'll take their words as gospel.
I think it's kind of heading that way.
If it's not it's already there. I've
long wanted to invest in a company that
made it possible for Elon to digitally
sign and verify some piece of content.
So if anyone listening that makes a lot
of sense. Yeah. I would love to back
something like that. Of course it's
going to happen. And then and
ironically, the way we watch television
now is we watch it over a period of
time. Yeah. Um the whole premise of the
movie Mountain Head is and I'm not going
to give away any spoilers, don't don't
worry. Um but it's the premise about
four tech founders,
you know, in in a in a remote hilltop
house.
One has just made these AI tools
available where we cannot tell what's
real and what's not. and the other
person has exactly what you're saying.
He has the technology that can validate
or invalidate content. What a premise.
That is essentially the premise, you
know, of the movie. It's a satire, just
like Doctor Strange Love was a satire.
It's a satire of a dark future. However,
um it's hard not to think that it's
incredibly important to validate
information that we're getting
increasingly. say a little bit more
about the power of networks and uh what
you believe is powerful and especially
set in today's environment or the
near-term future. I see it in chat
groups. You know the uh WhatsApp has
emerged as a
much more powerful tool of information
sharing. one chat group that Dan Sheim
has and D1 which famous one the famous
one I would think it's one of my more
trusted sources of information of what's
going on in our economy today I will
turn when when there's when there's
critical events happening I turn to that
chat group and uh I find it highly
informative
and I respect the voices ultimately the
individuals in that group. So yeah,
that's a power of a micro network, but
it's incredibly important and and I
think obviously we always had micro
networks, our community, our church, you
know, um our our basketball team, you
know, our friend group networks have all
always existed. But these larger closed
networks with a thousand members or a
million members, but it's closed. Um,
they have they have a lot of power. I
think Reddit is emerging as a platform
with a tremendous amount of power today.
If let's say I snap my fingers and skims
disappeared and you had to go build
another company in a vertical uh where
you could apply some of these same ideas
and models that that needs it a place
that's stale or has gotten stagnant.
Where would your instinct pull you
today? I'm very excited about the
creator economy. I think we are in the
um early innings early innings of the
creator economy. I'm um an investor in
in in several companies but one that I
have been a little bit more involved
with is is one called passes
uh which was founded by um Lucy Goo who
um uh was co-founder of scalei
and uh she's built a um a platform for
creators to directly um monetize
you know, their their their audience,
their fan base. And I think that's
incredibly powerful.
And I think we're in the beginning,
really beginning of um talent building
and monetizing
um their own networks. And it can go
from um again,
it could be a network around fly
fishing. It it could be a great chef, it
could be an athlete, it could be a pop
star, but so it can be a thousand
members, it can be millions of members.
But I really believe in the power of
that close and more intimate network
where we engage directly with um with
with someone we admire, a voice of
authority, someone that inspires us.
And there's a real need for it today
because
going back to, you know, the social
algorithm, they are really not about
following as much as they're about
entertainment today. And I think talent
uh or creators have realized on the
social platforms that they don't they
don't really own their audience anymore.
You don't really own your following.
And I'll give you a challenge. You can
do it after after this.
Go and look at three different artists.
Let's say one has 5 million followers,
one has 20 million, and I'll I'll give
you a name of someone who has, let's
say, 300 or 400 million. You'll find the
exact same amount of engagement. How's
that statistically possible? Well, it is
because engagement is being spread. So
the size of the following
doesn't matter so much um anymore. So
that audience someone has built maybe
spent 10 years building that size of
that following but now they're actually
unable to communicate
with that following. They are they they
they they're not getting through. If you
have 400 million followers and you say
something, 400 million people is not
going to see it. Only a fraction. I have
no opinion if that's good or if it's
bad. It's clearly good. Otherwise, we
wouldn't have moved away from from it,
right? That's it is what it is. It is
what it is. It is what it is. And I'm
sufficiently entertained. So, I'm a very
happy customer of Instagram. It's a
fantastic product. So um I'm excited
about it. Having said that, of course
it's creates
um this opportunity
to um to build these networks where um
where you have your own captive audience
and then can monetize
um that audience. I'm trying to think of
like places that had this iconic the
equivalent of the 400 million and are
kind of in a hard spot or might be in a
hard spot. If you were like the
economist or the Wall Street Journal or
the Financial Times or or something like
this, what would you do against this
reality where there it was about the
brand, not about the I can't name you
economist doesn't publish by lines, but
I can't name you a Wall Street Journal
author anymore. I used to be able to
name lots of them, right? So what would
you do if you were I I think you started
in magazines actually way back in the
day in Sweden. Several in the UK. Yeah.
Several. And so I would love to hear a
little bit about that and like what if
anything is left from you know that era
that might still be applicable today and
what you would do if you were you know
the economist or something. I don't have
all the answers. This is a tricky
question. It's a very tricky question
because I believe that news
organizations have
an incredibly important role within
society
and I think it's a shame.
Um,
some of it they did to themselves
partly because of what we're talking
about.
They had to create journalism that was
clickbait and they had to build
incentive structures. It's like that
saying, right? Show me the incentive and
I'll show you the result. They have to
um they had to create incentive
structures for the people working there
um you know to get to get eyeballs on
what they were doing. And uh I think
that changed things.
I
and and this is just my personal
opinion. I'm I'm not a highly political
person. This is not me making a
political statement
in any shape, way or form.
I'm just objectively observing
that
in um during the first Trump
administration
um what he often refers to as you know
mainstream media saw it as an
existential threat and uh they took
action that over time in many cases
undermined some of their editorial
integrity and Or at least that's what
what what a large part of America
believes today, rightfully or wrong,
wrongfully so. And as we went into CO,
they just were not able to put the genie
back in the bottle.
I I can't remember. I was listening to
the All-In podcast and I can't remember
which one of the guys um that said it.
Um but I thought it was very insightful
and I'm paraphrasing again. that said
that journalism became activism and and
I think maybe it did for a period of
time and um and it's been pretty hard to
put that put to put that back in the
bottle today. What do you remember most
fondly from your magazine days? It was
just a
wonderful
thing to do because it's the
storytelling.
Um it's the storytelling that's Yeah,
that's it. It's the storytelling. It's
it's the sense of discovery and then
storytelling.
And um I used to work for GQ
and the editor of GQ in the UK was guy
called Dylan Jones. And I think he
probably was one of the greatest
magazine editors of all time. And
everybody worked in in in in
at GQ were frustrated with him at times
because he said, "I knew Arctic Monkeys
were going to blow and he wouldn't write
about it or I knew this was going to
happen and you know I was so excited
about this that and and he said no or
and he he knew that he was the
he was the top 2% of readers.
But he was a customer of his own
journalism. So there was a moment in
time when he got it.
It was never first, but it wasn't
supposed to be. It was supposed to be in
GQ when he knew about it. So he was the
and he taught me this idea of being um
or aspiring to be not to break it, not
to break things. You didn't have to be
first. You needed to be at the forefront
of your own customer.
And
that thinking
um has really uh reflected on most
things I've been involved with
in I'm not so worried about always being
first, a product being first or um first
mover advantage. I think it's sometimes
phenomenal to be number two or three.
Um that can be a a much better place to
be. In fact, um I'm focused more when I
think it's right, you know, where where
where it resonates with me and and I'm
not necessarily on on the cutting edge,
but I'm probably the tip of the spear of
mainstream, if that makes any sense. And
the other thing working for a magazine
called Wallpaper in the UK
um under the guy who founded that
magazine called Tyler Brulee um I
learned two things. One is that a
magazine can be a reflection of your own
yeah your own interest in your own life.
and
um and wallpaper just was a was a total
reflection of what we as a team were
living through in that moment in time.
And I think that's what made it so
powerful.
It also taught me that you can't hold on
to a good idea. Meaning when you're
early on something, when you're when
when when you found a different way to
communicate or speak or um create
product, everybody's going to pile in.
And you know,
you have to
continue
to um to transform on your way up
because once you plateau, it's already
too late. And a guy that made a big
impression on me was a guy called Pier
Vel. He was the chairman of of Louis
Vuitton or LVMH fashion.
And he said, "Yans, the secret to our
success is that we always transform on
the way up." And there's a truth to that
because you think, you know, how we
operate is as long as it's good, we
don't want to change, right?
And then when things plateau or you know
kind of trails off human nature
optimistic so we go it's a moment we'll
be back we were first we did this first
they will remember it it's going to come
back and then it doesn't come back then
we start thinking about changing and
then by the time we're actually have
implemented any change things are
already going down.
Who fires a CEO
when a company is growing? Almost nobody
sometimes. Maybe we should. The Nicks
just fired Tibs
conference vitals.
There you go. Same question. I I'm so
glad I asked about magazines. Um about
your work in agency working with brands
like H&M and others like Yeah. same set
of I would love the same set of
reflections of just like what you take
from that time of your life. Well, I was
unsatisfied
working on behalf of everybody else. You
know, it comes a moment in your life
where you want to be the guy, you know,
not working for the guy. Yeah. And I
knew that in my early 30s that
however
much I would build this group,
in the end of the day, I was figuring
out ways to sell time. And at the end of
it,
there's not that much emotional
ownership
of the work that you create. You know,
you're a hired gun. You know, you go
home at the end of the day and when
something goes wrong, it's your fault.
When it goes well, it wasn't you.
It's a pretty thankless thankless place.
Yeah. To have a full career. And I'm
very grateful because I had the
opportunity to work with um with some of
the greatest to ever do it like Bernardo
at LVMH or Remma Ruffini
at Monontlair
and you know becoming inspired to the
point where
I wanted to be
like them not work for them. So I'm very
grateful for that. What did those two
teach you? What was the bar of
excellence that they showed you? Remo
taught me about the power
of
the role of art in commerce
and letting go.
and he took something which was a small
company called Monontlair and it was a
small ski company and he attached it to
to fashion and to popular culture and to
sport. He was able to to build, you
know, just a
an an unbelievable brand and company by
by borrowing all the cues while staying
true to um the core of the product which
is, you know, which was performance ski.
Sure sounds familiar. Yeah. And then if
it wasn't for that experience, I
wouldn't have started skims. I wouldn't
have started frame. you know, he looked
for, you know, the thing with underwear
that people don't really think of, and I
don't blame them, is that they have a
lot more in common with a a sneaker than
they do with a t-shirt. They're all
performance highly complicated from a
construction fit. It has to do a job. Um
especially
um in women's more so than for men's in
that it has to do a job. It has to you
know offer support and comfort for you
know 12 hours in a row, 14 hours. That's
a performance product. So there's a much
higher moat. It's much harder to
compete. It's much harder to innovate
product in it. Um once you have a
customer's trust
um they're very loyal as super high
retention.
So you know underwear and performance
wear has um a lot in common and the same
thing you know with if you think about
performance ski it's uh highly complex
highly technical has to do a job for
you. Um, so I looked at taking a
category like that and attach and
attaching it to culture. And if I hadn't
had the opportunity to observe Remma
Monontlair, I don't know if I would have
gone about building schemes the way that
Kim and I went about building schemes.
What about Bernard? that in the end of
the day,
he works to inspire and excite his
customer. And for all of his
unbelievable success,
he's just highly in tune um with what
his customers will give him agency to do
or not to do. And that level of I come
back to this this notion of being
objective.
He has that in spades. What do you think
is going to fill the role of status in
the future when machines are smarter
than we are and do a lot of the tasks
and
a lot of the things that might have
earned us status in the past might be
different in the future? I don't think
status is going anywhere.
Such a basic human
want. I don't think our physical lives
are going anywhere.
But let's assume that it is going
somewhere. What is status to my
11year-old? Well, he has status in what
he has achieved in Roblox. He has he
feels a great sense of status of what
he's built. So, I don't think that
status is limited to physical objects.
Um, humankind will always find ways to
display status. And if you interact in
social gaming,
from what I'm seeing, all of our,
you know,
cues of status here in our physical
world is in their digital world. It's a
direct transference. There's there's
really no difference. I don't know what
the future looks like in 20 years, but
as far as my children goes,
they combine physical and digital
status. What teenager or 20some doesn't
have status in the amount of followers
they have. I mean, status exists in so
many different ways. And um yeah, I
don't think I don't think that's going
anywhere. He's right up there with
hunger. It's a basic basic human drive.
very basic human need. I'd love to talk
about investing for just a minute.
You're an investor, too, uh, and have
been for a long time. You also get to
work. I talked to Neil and Josh ahead of
this, two of the great investors of of
our era that have been big partners of
yours. I'm curious about what you've
learned makes for great investors from
working with them and also just how you
think about your own investing and the
broader trends happening in the
investing world. We've talked about
private equity before and the
implications of that evolving landscape.
tell us your thinking on kind of the
world of investors and investing. Josh
and Neil are both
really really special people and
dare I say atypical in many ways.
They're both guys of really high
conviction
that take a long-term
view
and
they take
a lot fewer bets than many other people
that I know, you know, in the venture
space.
And
they really do believe in doubling down
behind their winners and staying
engaged.
And they seem really unfaced
by
a news cycle, a month, a quarter.
They tend to have really long-term views
on everything
and they invest into that world view.
And I think that's ultimately going to
make them they're already incredibly
successful.
I'm scared for how successful those two
are going to be. I'm I'm afraid,
you know, you give these guys another
They're young, too. They're 40. Yeah. Oh
my god. Give them 20 years of
compounding this, you know, 20 years of
compounding into this world view. Most
people are, you know, overly optimistic,
don't have the stomach for the long
term, influenced by by by by market
trends. When something is good, there's
no end to how good it can get. When
something is bad, there's no end to how
bad it can get. You know, in 21,
you can give away, you know, retail real
estate. Now, it's the hottest part of
the market.
a couple of years you couldn't give you
know years ago you couldn't give away
you know offices
now it's uh you know occupancy and you
know the right places are at capacity
there's no end to demand
you know these are um you got to you got
to very few people dare to have their
own long-term view and I think both of
them do so um
I think I'm in Honestly, I've learned
from that. I don't know where the world
is going within the next year, but I
think we can be relatively confident
where the world is going in 5 years. It
shouldn't be impossible to if you have
the stomach for it. If you invest, you
know, with that with that perspective,
you're going to be right more times than
you're wrong. How would you summarize
where the world's where you think the
world's going in five or 10 years? We
touched on some of it today. If you go
with my theory that which by the way is
not my theory. I mean I think it's
wildly established that we're living in
kind of a post-truth society. you know,
that's been written endlessly about.
And as a result, um, an individual voice
can cut through and really, um, control
a narrative and what they say is taken
as a truth over what you refer to as an
anonymous journalist. An individual is
going to be only more important, not
less important. Okay.
If the algorithm is going towards a
place of entertainment, not following,
one has to assume that the person that
has a higher degree of influence
will have the opportunity
to forge their own network. Those are
two basic things that I don't think I'm
going to be very wrong about. Which
product
will work? which products will you know
I couldn't tell you which founder that's
going to be successful I don't know but
I know where it's going so um if I had
their uh their expertise and and and
many others where they have enough of a
sample and enough of a nose for great
founders you want to back people that
that are creating the companies that
fits this worldview you and hopefully
you're going to be right. Say a bit
about the future for SKIMS both from the
perspective of maybe an IPO on the
horizon, maybe new product lines, things
that you're doing to transform on the
way up as you said before. What's next
for SKIMS? What I'm working on is how do
I scale
at pace
the business to meet the global demand
for the brand and right now it's a big
global brand but we're yet to do
business the way that customers like to
do business which is highly inperson.
Okay. So I'm very focused on the global
physical distribution of skims.
That's one that's important. And again,
and I'm now starting to tie some of
these things we talked about, I guess,
together, which is
if social media is a less um effective
way for me to communicate with my
community.
What really matters is the community
that I'm building through my app and
loyalty.
today about a year after we launched our
own um app we do about over 20% of our
business through it but building our app
and loyalty and uh which is a nice way
to say trying to expand that direct
community in a close network
where I can have my customers attention
that's that's going to be um the
difference maker I think over the next
five five years or so. So that's
incredibly you know important
to continue to evolve the way we do
business
to continue to be surprising.
You know when we started
we did a lot of things that no one else
did
at the pace no one did it. I have to
really watch it so we don't become a
victim of our own success.
So we have to coni continue to innovate
not just on the product side but also on
a marketing side. When Luca got traded
to Lakers just to bring it back to
basketball again. Clearly watch too much
basketball. Um no such thing in my
opinion. Pacers and OKC feels like I can
miss the whole series so I get some time
back. If it was Knicks I would have to
watch it. when Luca got traded um to the
Lakers, I was watching I think it was
First Take or something on ESPN and they
said, you know, we're now waiting for
Lucas to show up in the Skims campaign.
I first of all, whenever they talk about
Skims on ESPN, I'm excited. So, I I was
I was very happy.
However,
there's an expect if there's an
expectation,
there's also not a surprise. Yeah.
Right. So, interesting.
To me, that's a signal that we have to
take a step further
and
continue to do the unexpected.
I love Luca.
So, the door is open
if he wants to do it. Having said that,
uh it's it's it's it's to do what you're
not expecting me to do next. And if
anything keeps me up at night, it's it's
probably that idea. We've talked about
all the money and assets and companies
that are in private markets. And I'm
curious as an entrepreneur who's thought
a lot about investing, how you think
about being private versus being public
and the trade-offs associated with both.
What are we doing this for?
You know, I think it's a fair question
and I ask other founders that, you know,
as a as a as a founder of a company that
receives a lot of public attention like
Skims, I have the opportunity to meet
other founders that have created
unbelievable businesses that also are in
the public eye.
And
we talk about it like what are we doing
it for? Because
money
in my view is the result of doing
something great.
I think money by itself is a poor
purpose.
It shouldn't be the reason we get up in
the morning. It should be the result of
us doing something we love and doing a
great job and exciting our customers and
that should be rewarded. Right?
So,
but that's me as a founder. Not if
you're an investor, the money is the
purpose in many ways, right? Not for
everybody. Not the all it's not the
whole cake, but it's it's important.
It's the biggest part of the cake. It's
is it's it's 90% okay.
It should be. If not, they weren't doing
their jobs. So, but as a founder, you
don't sit and think I'm going to start
this company cuz I'm going to make so
much money with it for my investors. For
my investors. That's that's why I'm
going to go through this pain and give
up my life to make sure that in 5 to 10
years time I'm giving an excellent
return to those that invested in my
seound.
That's just not how you think. You wake
up and you say I have to do it. I cannot
live with not doing this thing. And then
you got to love it. And you're going to
love it through the great times because
there is enough hard times in any
entrepreneurial journey that you need a
lot of love to carry that through. He
carry you through. You know, I think
Yansen Hong said uh the other day
something along the lines of that he
would never be an entrepreneur if he
knew how hard it was.
I had to be an entrepreneur to do what I
love to do. the way I want to do it and
I had to be an entrepreneur to realize
the creative vision that I think
entrepreneurship is. But so I had no
choice. This is what I had to do. as you
uh bring something to life and you um
you bring capital partners on board
and
you have a duty, you have a
responsibility and uh
I treat everybody's money like your own
and uh I understand that
my motivation and their motivation
there's times where um they're not going
to be completely aligned. I'm going to
be in this company for a very long time.
You know, I'm probably going to go
public one day. My cap table in 5 years
is going to look nothing like the cap
table today. And that's okay. Um I'm
aware. I know I know I know how the game
goes. And my
responsibility at this point is actually
to deliver an excellent return for my
shareholders.
and in the process hopefully having a
good time doing it. I just for me the
most important thing is to do a great
job and have fun
and if I'm doing great work and I have a
good time doing it money normally
follows
public private it's really a matter of
taste
you know you used to have to go public
today there's this semi-liquid market
that has emerged that gives um a lot of
early shareholders at least
a great deal of optionality.
You know, you look at companies like uh
Stripe or SpaceX, there's been a lot of,
you know, optionality and liquidity for
early shareholders and um people can
trade in and trade out even, you know,
in these in them privately. So maybe
it's less important today um than it was
for me. I made a choice to have
institutional shareholders
and uh I've got to respect um their
their their their timeline and what
matters to them. um they have entrusted
me with their capital and uh I will do
everything within my power and I will um
make sure I I give them um what they
require in return. You know that's
that's the deal. That's the deal. And to
do that
uh the most likely outcome, not to say
it is the outcome, the most likely
outcome is to be a public company. I do
think though that it's healthy
for a company to have outside
shareholders.
At some point, it's healthy for a
company to be public. Does foster good
governance. But a company as it scales
and as it grows and matures, it's not
just about a founder. It's about
everyone. It's about all the
stakeholders, your employees. You have a
greater responsibility.
And I think it's it's easier to take
that responsibility as a public company.
So, um
I'm pro the public route personally. Um
but that's not to say it's for for for
for everyone. If I own this company 100%
myself, maybe I would have taken a
different view. Josh said something to
me earlier today just as thinking about
how to structure our conversation. Um,
which was really nice, which was that
you're an incredibly unique combination
of creative and commercial and that
actually the fact that you can do both
so well probably leads to more
interesting outcomes on both sides of
the equation, product, marketing,
business, etc. Um, and I feel like our
conversation today has been so chalk
full of things that I I'm scribbling
down constant notes here u that I want
to remind myself to go back to and learn
from and apply to what I'm trying to do
because that's what I want to do too.
That's what everyone wants to do is to
be creative and commercial. Um, they
want both sides of the equation. So, I'm
so thankful for your time and an amazing
conversation. The same question I ask
everyone at the end of these is what is
the kindest thing that anyone's ever
done for you? I'm very grateful
that I was able to move to the United
States in my late 30s
and has had the ability to reinvent
myself in this country
and having another chapter in this
country. a country and a community
that has,
and I'm speaking in the broadest sense
of the word here, welcomed me, my wife,
my family, and allowed us to be both
successful, but also a member of our
more direct community in a way that
couldn't happen on any other place on
earth. I don't know if it's an act of
kindness. I pay a lot of taxes in
return,
but um I'm in I'm incredibly grateful
for um for for that opportunity and and
um that's why I'm optimistic about the
future. I'm optimistic um about this
country. Um, I am not fearful even
though I understand why many people are.
Um, and personally I'm just I'm I'm just
excited to um to to be part and live for
death time uh in human history, which is
arguably the greatest time in history to
be alive. I think you're the first
person to say America as your answer
ever, which is so cool. I have to ask
one followup. Can you describe Emma's
superpower? She has
an ability
to uh to bring everybody with her. I
have never I mean, myself included, I go
along with everything she says. Now,
that's not that unique in a marriage.
Most of us most of us go along with what
we're told. But she has this
unbelievable ability to um to inspire
people and bring people with her and
it's exciting to be around her. I think
everybody who's around her has that
feeling. It's it's it's intoxicating. So
it's a remarkable quality. I I wish I
had a fraction of it. But you know they
say you marry someone that compliments
you. So she's the charm. Yes. This has
been amazing. Such a cool conversation.
Thanks so much for your time. Thank you
so much for having me. Appreciate it.
[Music]